[USING] add synchronization to load wallet (#706)
zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc: docs/using-wasabi/WalletLoad.md

# Wallet Load

There are two ways of loading your wallets in Wasabi, and you can load multiple wallets at the same time.
The synchronizing of your wallet happens fast and is very private by default.

[[toc]]

---

## Loading wallet step-by-step

### Wallet Explorer

> 1. On the right side of Wasabi is the `Wallet Explorer`, where you see an alphabetically sorted list of all the previously [generated](/using-wasabi/WalletGeneration.md) wallets.

Reviewer: These are not step numbers.
```suggestion
On the right side of Wasabi is the `Wallet Explorer`, where you see an alphabetically sorted list of all the previously [generated](/using-wasabi/WalletGeneration.md) wallets.
```

Author: ACK. I wanted to be consistent with other chapters, but it doesn't make sense here.

![](/WalletExplorerUnloaded.png)

> 2. You can load a wallet simply by double clicking on it or by right-clicking on it and then choosing `Load Wallet`.

Reviewer: Same
```suggestion
You can load a wallet simply by double clicking on it or by right-clicking on it and then choosing `Load Wallet`.
```

A coin will appear on the wallet icon to indicate the loaded wallets.

![](/WalletExplorerLoaded.png)

### Wallet Manager

> 3. Alternatively, you can select a wallet in the `Load Wallet` tab, and click the `load wallet` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can select a wallet in the `Load Wallet` tab, and click the `load wallet` button.
```

![](/WalletManagerLoadWallet.png)

## Synchronization

### Filter download

As soon as you start Wasabi, it connects to the backend server with a new Tor identity and requests the [BIP 158 block filters](/using-wasabi/BIPs.md#bip-158-compact-block-filters-for-light-clients).
At the first start this can take a couple minutes because all filters need to be downloaded, but for the subsequent starts this is faster as only the most recent filters are requested.

### Filter scanning

When you load a wallet, it checks if the generated addresses within the gap limit hit against a block filter.

> Most filter do not, and then the wallet is certain that this block does not contain a transaction of yours.

Reviewer: > Most filters do not

do not what?
This is not clear.

```suggestion
Most filters do not, and then the wallet is certain that this block does not contain a transaction of yours so it will not download it.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Most filters do not hit, and then the wallet is certain that this block does not contain a transaction of yours so it will not download it.
```

If a transaction of yours is in a block, then the corresponding filter will always be hit, and the wallet will know this is a relevant block for you.

> There can be a small chance for a false positive where the filter matches, but the block actually does not contain a transaction.

Reviewer: How can this happen?

Author: It happens often. the filters are not the whole tx id, but only a small part of it, and collision are frequent.
try it out:
1. create new wallet
2. do not send coins to it, so all keys are unused
3. load wallet, it will likely download blocks, and these are all false positives.

Reviewer: I understand, that is why sometimes I see blocks downloading even though I don't have any coins.
I wanted to ask about that but I always forget, thanks for the clarification

### Block download

> When a block filter hits, either a true match or a false positive, then this block is interesting for you and the wallet will get it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a block filter hits, either a true match or a false positive, then this block is important for you, so the wallet will download it.
```

If you have [a Bitcoin full node connected](/using-wasabi/BitcoinFullNode.md), then it will fetch the verified block locally.
If not, then Wasabi will connect to a random Bitcoin P2P node with a new Tor identity, request only this block for download, and then disconnect.

> In this step, your Wasabi behaves like any other full node, and cannot be differentiated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, your Wasabi behaves like any other full node, and cannot be differentiated.
```
